News is a very big topic in today's era. Nowadays, people focus a lot on news, and there are many types of news such as good news, bad news, true news, false news, and these news have a significant impact on people. In today's era, people have become so invested in news that they are very sensitive to certain types of news, which are called sensitive news. These news stories have a significant impact on people, such as those related to religion, terrorist attacks, etc. Nowadays, there are so many fake users and fake people who spread sensitive news and exaggerate sensitive news, which is causing a lot of problems in people's personal and social lives. People are getting angry with each other, and there is a lot of hatred due to the problems caused by sensitive fake news. Currently, there is a lot of research going on to stop fake news, and the best way to stop it is through artificial intelligence. AI has many machine learning and deep learning algorithms that have the ability to detect fake news, and each algorithm has different accuracy in detecting fake news. Nowadays, fake news is spreading the most on social media platforms because it is easy for fake users to take advantage of people's connections and spread fake news. AI is successful in detecting fake news on social media, so we are creating a fake news detection model based on different machine learning and deep learning models' accuracy check, which will differentiate between fake and real news. I have collected a dataset from After that, we performed pre-processing steps on both datasets and conducted research on various deep learning and machine learning algorithms. We first tested the machine learning algorithms and identified the best ones based on their accuracy, which we then applied to our dataset. We evaluated the logistic regression, particle, naïve bias, and decision tree models on the same dataset. One of these techniques, the logistic regression algorithm produced the best outcomes. We then utilized deep learning techniques to perform logistic regression with  hyperparameter tuning on the same dataset and obtained even better results. The results of the logistic regression model were then compared to those of the LSTM model. Although the LSTM model's findings were equally good, we aimed for better results. Finally, we compared the findings of the LSTM and bidirectional LSTM models, and the results were outstanding, with a 98% accuracy rate for the bilstm model.
